[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Few
things are held more tightly
among the academic world
than our global histories.
For reasons of religion,
control, tenure, et cetera,
this area of study
is sacrosanct, even
in the face of clearly
conflicting evidence.
Carl Lehrburger has made
a decades long study
of the true historical
nature of America,
which is nothing like what
we've read in our history books.
I think that's fair to say.
This is going to be a fun ride
for people who have not been
exposed to this information.
>>CARL LEHRBURGER: I'm very
excited to be here and talk
about the new
history of America.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I love it.
And first of all, before
we go into the new history
of America, let's go into
some of your personal history
and how you came about taking
on such a massive body of work.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
the short story
is that I set out to discover
a new history of America.
From an early age, I've been
very interested in mysticism,
esoteric works of the masters.
And so I've inclined to really
look deep into what goes on
and why.
Later on in life, I
became very involved
in technical endeavors,
developing renewable energy
technologies, and
really applying
scientific principles to
investigating and developing
new technologies.
And it's with the technology
and scientific background
that I've attempted to bring a
new history of America forward.
>>REGINA: What first alerted
you that something was amiss?
Or our story wasn't
complete, anyway.
>>LEHRBURGER: It was 1986 and
I was living in a New England
at the time.
And I came across a
book entitled America BC
by Dr. Barry Fell.
And Dr. Fell was a
professor at Harvard
in an area of microbiology.
But he, like many
diffusionist scholars
who looked at discovering
a new history,
was not trained as a historian
or as an epigrapher, somebody
who looked at ancient languages.
And so he was, in that
sense, kind of an amateur.
But his book "America BC"
revealed a whole new history
of America that
challenged the notion
that the Native Americans
solely came from the north
across the land bridge
and that Columbus was
the first explorer in America.
Dr. Fell described
a hemisphere that
had both Transpacific
and Transtlantic
explorers, colonists,
miners, coming to America
for thousands of
years before Columbus,
and cited hundreds of
examples throughout North
America and the
Americas that document
these foreign travelers.
Well, when I read
this, I was floored.
And like many diffusionist
researchers and scholars--
>>REGINA: And I'm
going to have you
describe the word in a minute.
>>LEHRBURGER: Who began really
by reading Dr. Fell, that
was my inspiration.
He wrote the book in 1976.
I first read it in 1986.
And that was the beginning
of my explorations
of a new history of America.
>>REGINA: Tell us what
diffusionist means.
You've said it twice.
>>LEHRBURGER: Diffusionist as
opposed to independent theory
or isolationism is a theory
that holds that culture comes
from the outside as opposed to,
in the case of, for example,
Native Americans,
everything was done
in the context of
an isolated society.
So diffusionist
scholars, for example,
would cite a symbol
like a swastika, used
in some of the Native
American symbols,
as coming from outside
America as opposed
to the Native Americans
inventing the swastika.
So this has been the big
debate ever since Barry Fell of
whether or not we have
pre-Columbian, Transpacific
and Transatlantic travelers
coming to America.
The archaeo-priesthood,
that is the archaeologists
and the archaeological
community,
has fought diffusionism
for decades.
And this was one reason
to write the book.
With so many diffusionist
scholars, including Barry Fell,
who wrote "America
BC," Gunnar Thompson,
who wrote "America Discovery,"
and my two mentors,
William McGlone
and Philip Leonard,
who wrote "Ancient
American Inscriptions"--
and I should say scores of other
academics and researchers--
the paradigm that Columbus
discovered America has not been
shattered.
So I had to do something.
And even though I--
>>REGINA: And a wonderful
contribution it was.
I was fascinated.
And we're going to go into
Columbus' story in a minute.
But let me ask you, why has
hackademia-- hackadamia, whoa--
why has academia been
so resistant to notion
of diffusionism.
Why?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, that's
a very good question.
And it's not a simple answer.
But I would say that's the short
answer is that academicians
don't like to admit that
they were wrong, number one.
Number two, there is
a process in academia
that you have to pass
through the gatekeepers
to get that master's
degree, that PhD Degree,
and the teaching certificates.
And the gatekeepers
heretofore have really
not allowed diffusionism as a
subject to be widely discussed
or elaborated on.
And this is really documented
by many, many scholars,
but most notably I would
say Dr. Gunnar Thompson, who
is one of really the
greatest diffusionist
scholars of our day,
and I talk about him
quite a bit in our book.
But he was not allowed
to publish his papers
and has not been given tenure
at any university because
of his diffusionist beliefs.
So we have the gatekeepers.
We have the inability
or the not wanting
to admit that one is wrong.
>>REGINA: But usually
it's admitting someone
that preceded you was wrong.
That should be
cool enough, right?
But no.
>>LEHRBURGER: It's been a
paradigm that hasn't been
shattered for the mainstream.
There's other aspects of it.
And it gets into your question
about Columbus and the Columbus
mythology.
At the heart of
American history is
the discovery of
America by Columbus
and how great of a greater
discovery it was, and it
led to an exceptional
country, often
referred to as American
Exceptionalism,
with Manifest Destiny and
certainly a Christian nation
that we become, just as
Columbus has envisioned.
So it's important
for that old history
to uphold that notion that
Columbus discovered America,
even though he was actually the
last explorer, not the first.
>>REGINA: So now we get
into this juicy part
of the discussion.
And we're going to
spend some time on it
because I think it's important
before we start building
a new vision of what our
history is to start tearing down
the old, as you call it.
Busting those myths.
So number one, who was
Christopher Columbus?
Tell us a bit about
the man himself.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, the
historical Christopher Columbus
is well known, that he,
along with his brother
Bartholomew were map-makers.
Columbus participated
in several voyages
to explore North Africa, as
well as the coast of Europe.
But he had an opportunity
to uncover many maps that
were left in the libraries
abandoned by the Muslims
in Toledo, Spain.
And these libraries were
left completely intact
so that all of the literature,
the astronomy, the astrology,
the history, were
available for the West.
>>REGINA: And this was
knowledge that was produced
over thousands of years.
>>LEHRBURGER:
Thousands of years.
And the Arabs had
not only come up
with much of the science and
the technology themselves,
but had the benefit
of earlier cultures.
Well this, in many respects,
this information coming out
of these libraries, really
spurned kind of a Renaissance
and it brought Europe
of the Dark Ages
as this information began to
challenge the Dark Ages and all
that went on with the idea, for
example, that the earth went
around the sun.
>>REGINA: Right.
Or that the earth was flat.
>>LEHRBURGER: And we can talk
about that a little bit later.
However, one thing
that we really
don't find too much from these
Arab libraries was the maps.
And we know that they were there
because they were explorers.
Well, as I've written in The
Secrets of Ancient America,
I believe that Christopher
and Bartholomew Columbus
had access to these
maps and became
in possession of these maps and
through these era maps learned
that there was a new world.
They learned how to get
there via the trade winds.
They learned how
long it would take.
And probably had some notion
of what they would find there.
So it was not only that the
maps from the Arab libraries
in Toledo that Columbus
had access, but also
from his wife's side of
the family, he had access
to some of the stories of the
great explorer Henry Sinclair,
who set across from Scandinavia
to the New World and in 1100.
And Felipa intermarried into
this Dresden Sinclair family
and it's certainly likely
that Columbus had access to,
if not just the stories of the
explorations of Henry Sinclair,
but also potentially maps.
So Columbus had access to
the information about the New
World from both his
wife's side of the family
and from their maps.
And it's quite
clear from what we
do know about Columbus'
voyage that he knew
exactly where he was going.
The notion that he was
sailing to India or to China
to meet the great Khan is
a complete fabrication.
He didn't have any gifts
to give to the Khan.
He didn't have provisions
that would last
any longer than it took him.
And certainly if he was
really serious about meeting
the great Khan, he would
not have claimed the land
that he so-called discovered
for the King and Queen.
So the idea that he was
sailing to Asia I believe
was a complete fabrication.
He knew exactly where was going
and how long it would take.
>>REGINA: There's also some
evidence via his own shipping
logs.
In terms and provisions
for the journeys and such,
it seemed that he must have
had some kind of knowledge
as to how long it was going
to take because there were
the right amount of provisions
for that number of days
and that many people
on board, as though it
had been properly calculated.
>>LEHRBURGER: There's
little doubt about that.
And he also brought with
him only little trinkets
to give to the natives.
He didn't bring any great
gifts to bring to any royalty.
So it's quite clear that
he knew where he was going.
Unfortunately, I don't think
that even his journals that
have come down to us
have been left unedited
by the Church and
other people that
wanted to hide the notion
that he knew where was coming
and why he was coming
to the Americans.
>>REGINA: When he did
come to the Americas,
once he did arrive--
well, there are
a few things in
that in terms of he
initially landed and so forth.
There was some
political jostling
around telling some of the
natives of a particular area,
hey, you don't talk about this.
This is the official version.
There was a highly
constructed story
around this from the beginning.
But let's talk a little
bit about his own behaviors
and practices once he arrived,
with the Indian population,
for example.
>>LEHRBURGER: Once
Columbus arrived,
his agenda became very clear.
And it was he was
out for riches.
He was looking for gold.
Not only did
Columbus have debts,
but the monarchy's that had
funded him had great debts.
So I believe that he used the
prospect of gold and riches
to sell his voyages to the
King and Queen of Spain.
So you could almost say that
it began about seeking gold
and treasures in the America.
>>REGINA: And exploiting
the native people
to become his gold miners.
>>LEHRBURGER: And that
became part of the narrative,
because he needed the labor.
And he also instigated an era
of slavery in the New World.
Columbus was the first one
to really bring slavery
into the New World.
And it didn't work out very
well with the native populations
of the Caribbean.
So ultimately, they began
importing African slaves.
From the time Columbus arrived
in the Caribbean to the time
that-- in a 50 year
period-- the population went
from 100,000 natives to 200.
So the real genocide in the
Americas began with Columbus.
But the story of the
conquest of America
really unfolds with Cortes
in Mexico and Pizarro
in South America, continuing
the exploitation of the natives,
the destruction
of native culture,
and really the stealing of
the land and their riches.
Columbus opened the
door, but it was
Columbus and
Pizarro who finished
the conquest for the Europeans.
>>REGINA: So essentially,
as I've written the book,
they would take the native
population, such as the very
peaceful Arawak tribe
and they give them
a certain quota
of gold that they
needed to mine, whichever
tribe they were dealing with,
that they needed to mine during
a specific period of time.
And if they didn't
meet the quota,
they would hunt them down
with dogs and kill them.
>>LEHRBURGER: It
was quite horrific.
But it got worse for
the Native Americans.
>>REGINA: Well, for the girls.
And then let's talk
about some of the girls.
What happened with them?
>>LEHRBURGER: I think that
the Columbus narrative
is that he landed
in the Americas that
was inhabited by savages.
And it was the notion
that the natives
were savages that really allowed
the Europeans to treat them
as animals and treat them
as slaves and treat them
as dogs, not realizing
that the Native Americans
of the Caribbean but also
of the rest of the New World
had a very
sophisticated culture.
And in the case of Mexico and
other places, in many respects,
more sophisticated than
European culture of the time,
certainly from the point of view
of the vastness of the cities,
the artwork that went
on, the astronomy.
And so we have in America,
when Columbus arrives,
a relatively advanced
civilization.
But the storyline had
to be these were savages
and it's not
stealing their land.
We're with the
benefit of the Church
and with the benefit
of being saved,
we are really
helping the natives.
And if they don't
toe the line and die,
well, there's nothing lost
there because they're savages.
So part of this dialogue
of being savages
enabled the Europeans to come
in and be such exploiters.
>>REGINA: And there were
some tricky political nuances
in there.
For example, in order to
have slave girls-- well,
first they're trying to
baptize everyone and turn this
into a Christian world, turn
the savages into Christians.
Now if they had
successfully done that,
then technically a baptized girl
couldn't be used as a slave.
So the nuance there is
he found an efficient way
to deal with that.
Don't baptize
those girls anymore
so you can have your slaves
and propagate Christianity,
I guess through what was
left of the male population.
I'm not quite sure
how they did that.
But these were kind of
nasty bits of trickery.
>>LEHRBURGER: The idea that
Queen Isabella would request
that Columbus baptize
the females to keep them
from being slaves is kind of
a crazy notion to begin with.
But of course being
across the ocean
and with an agenda
of gold hunting,
Columbus really didn't,
at that part of the story,
didn't care so much about that.
And that was important
because the mission
was all about the gold.
So it's very likely that
Columbus shared little
of not only the knowledge
that he had of the New World
but also of the politics that
took place in the New World
once he was there.
Because it becomes very clear
that it was all about gold
and extracting the gold.
And even the records
that have come down to us
show that monarchs didn't give
Columbus what he had bargained
for, what they agreed to.
And there was a
lawsuit by Columbus
and his family to try to get
10% of everything that went back
to Europe that was unsuccessful.
But it reinforces the notion
that Columbus came not so much
to discover a New World but to--
>>REGINA: No.
In it for the booty.
>>LEHRBURGER: To come and
take the riches and plunder
something that he
had little insight in
from maps from the Arabs and
perhaps from his wife's family.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about that.
So it must have been
fairly obvious to him
before his voyage the
earth was not flat.
Let's talk about that phenomena.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, the
idea that the earth is flat
is really a recent notion.
>>REGINA: I was surprised
to read this in your book.
Please explain this.
>>LEHRBURGER: The last
couple of hundred years.
And from really the Greeks, we
know that the Earth was round.
And certainly the Chinese
and the Arabs and navigators
appreciated that
the earth was round.
But the idea of a flat
earth was really somewhat
of an invention of recent.
>>REGINA: But why?
>>LEHRBURGER: It was
a-- as you pointed out,
there was politics involved with
different religious groups that
were jockeying for the
ears of the population.
>>REGINA: It's as though it
would discourage exploration
if you thought you were going to
fall off the edge of the earth
and keep people more insular.
>>LEHRBURGER: That's
a good answer.
I don't really know.
In the 1800s, it did come about.
But I'm not sure.
>>REGINA: So anyway,
it's relatively recent.
That I can see.
If you want to keep
a population put,
just discourage them
from traveling by saying,
hey, you're going to fall off
into-- well, I don't know what.
The cosmos.
An abyss or something.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
it was a recent myth,
and it was contrary to the
science not only of the day,
but going back
thousands of years ago.
So whether or not Ferdinand
and Isabella knew about it,
I don't think so.
But nevertheless,
has kind of been
rolled into the whole
Columbus mythology that it he
who helped demonstrate--
>>REGINA: Oh, what a brave man.
>>LEHRBURGER: And nothing could
be farther from the truth.
>>REGINA: Now there's
another letter.
I have this written down here.
He also asserted in the
letter to Pope Alexander VI
that Cuba was the
east coast of Asia
and he made all the sailors
swear not to divulge anything
different from that story.
>>LEHRBURGER: This all goes back
to the story line of Columbus,
the story line of the
Church, and that he
knew where he was going and
his agenda was to get gold.
So part of it was that he
had to keep his secrets.
And to keep those
secrets, he had
to make his men swear that they
weren't going to disclose it
to the powers that be.
>>REGINA: So we wonder why
our history is so distorted.
What a mess.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
it's a beginning.
It's the beginning of a mess.
And it really only got worse.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: So now
what else do we need
to put in there at this time.
Here we have there was evidence
that the Phoenicians were
in America.
And we go back to Barry
Fells' "America BC."
And he did piece together
bits of information
through fragments of
languages that were left.
So now let's kind of
jump out of Columbus
and how would you segue into
these other deeper histories?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, you
know, modern historians might
acknowledge that the Norse
people and the Vikings
"might"-- and I put it
in quotation marks--
have visited the
Americas before Columbus.
But they really have
disputed the idea
that the Celts of
Europe, the Indus Valley
people from greater
Indus Valley, including
India and Indo-Turkey,
and many other groups
made it to America.
But the story of foreign
travelers making it
to America, at least from
the point of view of my book,
goes back to the copper
mining in Michigan,
where we see very pure
copper, almost on the surface,
at the peninsulas of Michigan
and in Lake Superior.
And these open
mines were readily
available for
extracting pure copper.
And it's quite obvious
from the landscape
that there are thousands if
not tens of thousands of hand
dug mines that
extracted this copper.
And many of the
diffusionist scholars
have argued and asserted
that this went on
for many thousands
of years, going back
at least 4,000 years.
Now the copper mining
was a driving force
for the merchants of the day,
which were the Phoenicians.
And even before
the Phoenicians, we
have the Greeks and the
Minoans that perhaps
knew about the copper mining.
>>REGINA: Tell us
just a little bit
about the Phoenicians
and their explorations
and who these people were.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
the Phoenicians
were a group that is supposed to
be from Canaanite origin, that
is the landed that is now
Israel and Palestine and Syria.
And then they moved into
the Mediterranean regions
at least 3,000 years ago.
And one of their central
strongholds was Carthage.
And hence we have
the Carthaginians
is also another name
for the Phoenicians.
But the Phoenicians,
because of their bases
in the Mediterranean, expanded.
They became the navies
of the ancient world.
So if you were a, say, a
Hebrew or perhaps an Egyptian,
you would contract with
Phoenician merchants
to come to America, as
opposed to perhaps having
your own merchant marine.
>>REGINA: So there
were pretty developed
in terms of their
sciences and all
of their navigational
skills and their equipment.
>>LEHRBURGER: Shipbuilding,
navigation, astronomy,
and perhaps mining.
But most importantly, trade.
It's unlikely that
the Phoenicians
revealed exactly how they
got here or their routes.
But certainly they had
significant shipping lanes
that came to the Americas.
I would advocate for
copper in the beginning.
But also to bring
colonists over here.
Also for furs and other metals.
Barry Fell notes that
there is evidence
that the Phoenicians were here.
They left not only their
writing inscribed in stone--
and we have artifacts that
Dr. Fell has interpreted
to be of the Phoenicians.
And in one of these
inscriptions off of Maine,
it actually says
this is a-- and it's
right off the coast--
this is a terminus
for Phoenician merchants.
>>REGINA: And are these two
tablets that were found--
>>LEHRBURGER: It's not a tablet.
But it is a stone
inscription off of Maine.
And the other
inscription is found
on a stone called
the Bourne Stone,
from Bourne, Massachusetts.
And in this
inscription, the writer
is basically pulling a Columbus.
He's annexing the
land for his people.
This land is annexed for
the name of Phoenicia.
>>REGINA: And these writings
were from roughly about 2,600
to 2,800 years ago?
>>LEHRBURGER: Probably closer
to the 3,000 years ago.
They really go
back quite a ways.
There are other artifacts
left by the Phoenicians
in South America.
And we see from a collection
called the Crespi collection
that was put together
by a Father Carlo Crespi
in Ecuador that had these
gold plates with Babylonian
and Syrian writing,
very similar to what
you find in the old world.
And this is just more evidence
that the Phoenicians as well as
well as other old world people
made it to the Americas.
They were looking
for gold and silver
and they were successful
in finding it.
>>REGINA: And
copper, apparently.
>>LEHRBURGER: And copper.
>>REGINA: And in
Richard Dewhurst's book,
I think it was-- it
could've been maybe also
some mentions in Forbidden
Archaeology by Michael Cremo,
they talked about some of
these very sophisticated copper
artifacts, sophisticated
jewelry, cups--
not that that was a great
idea over the long haul
to be drinking out of those in
lead, too-- but in any event,
very sophisticated items
had been made out of these
and these artifacts
have been found.
>>LEHRBURGER: And it also
goes back to the notion
that we look back
in history think
that these were undeveloped
and kind of ignorant peoples.
But the truth of the matter is
that these ancient voyagers,
whether they were coming as
Celtic voyagers or definition
on Phoenician ships
or later day Romans,
they had much larger
and more sophisticated
ships than Columbus had.
And they had probably
much better technology
in terms of their
navigation as well.
And that doesn't really talk
about the culture of the day.
So the idea that
these were primitives
is really turned
on its head when
we go back and see that, by
the end of the Dark Ages,
culture in Europe had
degraded and devolved
so much that people,
for the most part,
had forgotten that there
was a New World here.
And we must remember
the power of the Church.
They controlled all the printing
presses, all to writing,
all the literature.
So the idea that there was this
grand conspiracy for ignorance
is understandable because of
the control that the Church had.
>>REGINA: And I remember-- yes.
And we don't know the nature
of the culture exactly
and how they lived,
although some--
if you dig deeply enough-- you
can find some of the evidence
for very sophisticated
types of homes
that existed under the
ground, some of them
even more mound-like in
nature, but sophisticated
on the inside.
And beings up in
the Michigan area
found, and Ohio
also-- I remember
this one scene, this one
couple that was exhumed,
and she was a queen.
A lot of these people were
quite tall and, in addition,
just bedecked with these
beautiful, delicate work,
with thousands of
pearls on her body.
>>LEHRBURGER: You know,
what you talk about
reinforces a notion that
Gunnar Thompson writes
about at length, which is
our multicultural history,
that it wasn't just the white
guys coming with the cross
to bring Christianity
to the New World,
but that we have a very diverse
multicultural history that
includes Mediterranean
people before Columbus,
that includes the Celts
with expansive presence
in the Americas.
It includes Romans,
Hebrews from the Atlantic,
as well as Indus Valley people.
And this is part of our history
that has been covered up
and why the Columbus myth
has to be challenged today
if we really are going
to have an ability
to move into the future without
the baggage of the past.
>>REGINA: And we're going to
go into a lot of specifics
of evidence that has been found
validating what you just said.
But I wanted to just
bring something up.
I was at the airport a few
days ago flying into work here,
and a man standing next
to me in line at Starbucks
started a conversation.
Where are you headed?
What do you do?
Well, I do this.
And he said, what kind of show?
And I said, well, I have
this really interesting one,
for example, coming up
on an alternative view
of our American
history that predates
the Native American
story, even though it may
have been running concurrently.
And it turns out he
said he was Lakota.
So he said I take
exception to that.
And I said, well, I think
there's room for these stories
to run concurrently and we ended
up in a very friendly dialogue
where he was going to
then look at your work.
But the point being--
and he said, well,
there's evidence my people have
been here for 15,000 years.
I said quite possibly.
But there's evidence
others have been
there may be equally that
long and even before that.
And it was quite an affront
and challenge initially to him
psychologically and emotionally.
And this does bear speaking
about in the story.
Because right now some of these
archaeological artifacts are
on lands that cannot be touched
without permissions from
the Native American cultures.
Now, how does all of
this interface with that?
Because they have their
own story to protect.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, you know,
the Native American story is
the essential to
my book, as well as
understanding our history.
However, we all, including
many of the Native Americans,
have to be open to a
new history of America.
The idea that we can speak of
Native Americans generically
or as one group is a
myth in and of itself.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>LEHRBURGER: And when I
talk about a new history,
we have to be very specific.
And certainly there are Native
American tribes that go back,
their ancestors go back to
coming across the land bridge
as the archaeologists tell
us the natives got here.
And there's no doubt about that.
And there's nothing-- what we're
writing about as diffusionists
that contradict that.
However, what we add to
the historical narrative
is that there was
cultural contact
from the Atlantic and cultural
contact from the Pacific.
And in some tribes, this contact
is more notable than in others.
So you might have a
Native American tribe
that really has no influence
from foreign sources.
On the other hand, you
have Native American tribes
that have remnants of old
world cultures in them,
whether they be
symbols or words--
>>REGINA: Like the
swastika, for example.
>>LEHRBURGER: And even DNA.
>>REGINA: A Hindu culture.
And DNA.
>>LEHRBURGER: And DNA.
So this is very challenging for
some of the Native Americans.
And I remember being in Santa
Fe and meeting a Zuni dancer.
And he was just all dressed
up with his feathers and just
beautiful clothes.
And we started talking.
And I started talking
about the new history
by noting that one of
the books I had read,
"The Zuni Enigma," talked about
that many of the Zuni culture
had come from the
Indus Valley groups.
Well, this particular man
became extremely irate.
>>REGINA: What evidence
did you point to?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, "The
Zuni Enigma" really points
to a lot of evidence,
both linguistic evidence,
artistic evidence,
racial evidence.
It's very suggestive--
>>REGINA: DNA?
>>LEHRBURGER: I don't
know if they did.
This was before the DNA.
But it was a very-- it wasn't
just one thing or another
or one drawing showing
turtles or one-- no,
it was a significant
amount of evidence.
But he thought that they be
author had denigrated the tribe
and that it was a
white person's lie
about white washing
native culture.
So it's a very sensitive
subject that diffusionists
have to address.
Not only the
archaeo-priesthood who
doesn't want us to talk about
the old world cultures that
came before Columbus, but also
the resentment of many tribes
that they feel that this is a
white washing of their history.
On the other hand, there
are Native American tribes
that accept the notion
that their forefathers came
from across the ocean.
And there are--
>>REGINA: It's part of the lore.
>>LEHRBURGER: It's
part of their stories.
It's part of their
own mythologies.
And even the emergence in
mythology of the Navajo coming
out of the ground
from the underworld
is all very symbolic, as
the underworld is really
the other side of
the world, you know?
So if you look at
it in this context,
there's a mythological
tradition that
suggests, in some
of these tribes
and in some of these cultures,
that they came from afar.
But another instance of the
central band of Cherokee
have discovered
within their lore
and within their tribal
traditions, a connection
to the Hebrews.
And they actually have a project
where they have gone and looked
at some of the language and some
of the customs that they have.
And there are other tribes
that still celebrate
some of the Jewish customs.
So it's not a black
and white situation.
But as historians
and as Americans,
we need to get away from
the notion of they're all
Native America can be--
>>REGINA: Brown people,
now there are white people,
and now we're all
mixed together.
>>LEHRBURGER: That's right.
That all the Native
Americans are together.
When the English came to the
Americas and settled in New
England, many of the tribes,
including the Mi'kmaq tribes,
they were almost as
white as the Europeans.
So again, this is
consistent with the notion
that previous Celtic explores
and perhaps Welsh explorers
and Europeans had been
there and interbred
with the native populations.
>>REGINA: Let's go back to
the Bat Creek Stone, which was
written in Canaanite, right?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
let me go back
and say that there are
many artifacts that
have been found in the Americas
suggesting old world peoples
were here.
But nearly every one of
them is controversial.
And the controversy
because, number one,
they don't coincide
with the Columbus
discovered America and--
>>REGINA: No
official time lines.
>>LEHRBURGER: But also they're
controversial because there
have been so many fakes
and hoaxes and relics that
have been claimed to be old
world that are, in fact, not.
So for the
diffusionists scholars,
many have been misled, I
believe, by some of the hoaxes.
There was a period of time
in the American history
in the beginning, perhaps
in the 1830s and '40s
and going right up
into the early 1900s,
called the Golden Age of Hoaxes.
And there were many,
many hoaxes perpetuated.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
A lot of flim-flam
men traveling around
in their little special
shows in their wagons.
So let's say that you've
done your due diligence.
You and the others have
done their due diligence.
We know there's
always that chance.
So that is a blanket statement.
We're going to be showing a
lot of images of artifacts.
We'll assume that,
at this point,
it appears they're
authentic, right?
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, you
have to be very specific.
Now you mentioned
the Bat Creek Stone.
It is relatively small
stone that was said to be
had been excavated by a
Smithsonian researcher
and uncovered in
one of the mounds,
at the very bottom of the mound.
And it was first interpreted
to be Cherokee writing.
But subsequently after it was
published by the Smithsonian,
diffusionist scholars noted
that it was upside down
and was actually a Canaanite or
an old world inscription that
related to a proto Hebrew phrase
for Judah or a star for Judah.
Now this is, I think, one of the
likely artifacts that is real.
We just don't know 100%.
However, because it was
discovered by Smithsonian
researcher, it gives a
lot of credibility to it,
that it was a real artifact.
This is contrast with many
of the artifacts found
in the Midwest and attributed
to being uncovered in mounds
that clearly are hoaxes.
There are, I would
say, at least thousands
of artifacts that
have been presented
as coming from Coptic Egyptians
found in the old world found
in the New World.
But when looking--
and I cite some
of these examples of
tablets that were made out
of copper-- that when the
metallurgical analysis was done
on these tablets,
they were found
to be of modern
smelting technology.
So we have to be so very careful
when we look at what it's often
claimed as real artifacts.
And this is why many of my
contemporaries and previous
researchers in the diffusionist
area have fallen short,
that the relics that they
present as being real,
you cannot say with 100%.
And this is what
happened to Barry Fell.
If you make a little
mistake, they'll
throw the baby out
with the bath water
and forget all of the
great discoveries, all
the great interpretations
and epigraphy
that he put together, all
the historical narrative
that he came up with to
demonstrate a new history.
But because of
several mistakes, he
has lost credibility and anyone
associated with Barry Fell also
loses credibility in
scientific circles.
>>REGINA: I bet academia isn't
held to the same standard
for all their mistakes.
>>LEHRBURGER: That's right.
>>REGINA: And
misrepresentations.
>>LEHRBURGER: And we're going
to come back to this point.
But that's why I say about
a third of the book deals
with a rock art.
Because unlike many
of the artifacts that
have been attributed to this the
mound building people, the rock
art you can't kind of
walk away with it or you
can't smuggle in.
So I made the case-- and I
considerate it the smoking gun
case-- 100% that we had Celts
traveling in the Americas
thousands of years
before Columbus, based
on their rock art and their
inscriptions that they left.
So it's an important
part of our history
that when we talk about the
credibility of these artifacts,
we have to have an
open mind and realize
that what has been presented
in the past as real artifacts
proving old world contact,
were, in fact, frauds.
Having said that, there
are very good examples--
>>REGINA: Yes.
And we're going to get
to-- lot of stone--
but let's talk about some
tiny objects first-- coins.
Thousands of coins
have been found
from ancient cultures that
appear to be authentic coins.
And in particular, this Roman
coin from the fifth century
found buried under three
feet of dirt in Springfield.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
I think we can
say there were many
hundreds of ancient coins
that have been uncovered in
America, with a predominance
off the coast of
New England, kind
of washing up on the beaches.
And at the terminus of the
Mississippi down in Louisiana,
again, consistent
with the notion
that they would have been
shipwrecks and these coins
would have washed up.
But really from the
east of the Mississippi,
we find these coins
in tributaries.
Some of the coins have
been dug up by farmers
as they're plowing their fields.
And what's interesting is when
you do find a group of coins,
it really gives you a sense
of the historical context.
So they're not all
from the same group.
They're not all from
the same time frame.
So there have been
several Hebrew coins that
have been found in Kentucky.
There have been Roman coins.
There have been just a--
Celtic and other old world
peoples have left their coins.
And these are, as a whole, I
think indicative of evidence.
But any given
coin, any one coin,
has the same problem
of the artifacts.
The archaeo-priesthood would
argue that it was planted
or it was faked or
somebody threw it out.
So any one coin is
less compelling.
>>REGINA: But when you
have thousands of them.
>>LEHRBURGER: But when
you have so many of them,
it really makes the case.
As to the photograph in
my book showing the Roman
coin from Springfield, this
was witnessed by a group.
It was found by a farmer that
really had no agenda here.
And we have to remember that
much of the historical record
that we have comes not from the
professional archaeologists,
but it comes from the
amateur archaeologists,
from the people-- the town
historical committees.
>>REGINA: And farmers,
because they're digging.
>>LEHRBURGER: And the farmers.
So the coins are certainly
indicative that we
have many different old
world people's here,
but have not been given much
credibility as authentic
by the archaeo-priesthood
and archaeologists.
>>REGINA: Now let's go
to some of the big stuff.
New Hampshire.
The Ring of Stones.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well, the
story of The Ring of Stones
really goes back to the Celts.
And we see evidence that
the Celtic people inhabited
New England for at least
2,500 years ago and probably
initially were arriving in
the Americas for copper.
But they, unlike
many other people
we find that visited America,
they decided to settle here.
And you could
almost say that what
we call New England was really
New Ireland in those days.
There was extensive communities,
ritual sites in Vermont,
in New Hampshire,
and in Massachusetts.
And we see this
culture expanding out,
seeking perhaps riches.
Seeking pathways
to the Mississippi.
Seeking gold.
But by following
the tributaries,
the expansion of
the Celtic people
ultimately led them into
Colorado, Kansas, and Oklahoma,
which is a great part of
the book that I talk about
and we'll be talking
about it a little later.
But the stronghold of the Celts
was probably a New England.
And perhaps the
most accessible site
that people can visit today is
called America's Stonehenge,
in southern New Hampshire,
near Lawrence, Massachusetts.
And this is a vast site
that has many markers noting
the most important calendrical
days of the ancients.
>>REGINA: Oriented
towards solstices.
>>LEHRBURGER: The
solstices, equinoxes--
>>REGINA: Very similar to
their ones in the counterpart
in the British Isles.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
And this is a vast site.
And fortunately, it has been
preserved, although much of it
was mined for curb stones in
the late 1800s for Lowell,
Massachusetts.
But fortunately it has been
preserved by Mr. Goodwin
and Mr. Robert Stone.
And now the public can actually
go to America's Stonehenge
and visit the site,
see the monoliths,
see the stone chambers,
and in their little museum,
actually see some
Celtic writing.
Now, this is a major site.
The site of The Ring of
Stones in a New Hampshire--
>>REGINA: You've been there.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes, I have.
And I learned about it because
it's on the cover of a book
by Dickson Mabon.
And they put it on the
cover of their book
when they're talking about
some of the mysteries of New
England.
And I decided I
had to go see this.
This was amazing.
And what it is, the
covers shows what
appears to be large
monolith stone sticking out
in some kind of a
design that might
be for calendrical purposes.
So it wasn't that easy to find,
but I was able to find it.
And approaching it, it
was a very misty day
and I was all by myself.
So the stage was set for
almost a mystical experience
as I approached the hill.
I was somewhat
surprised at how small
they were compared to what
it looked like in the book
or what I'd seen from
America's Stonehenge, which
was quite large.
But in the context of
sitting on top of this hill,
it appeared as though that
this was some type of a ritual
site, some type of
a calendar site,
and it was very awe inspiring to
see this type of conflagration
of rocks in sort of a
circle with remaining
monoliths on the ground.
And knowing that you're walking
on something very important
the ancients have left for
us, but not really knowing
what it is or who did it.
But I think that this was
part of the Celtic people's
expansion throughout New England
that eventually took them
into Colorado and Oklahoma by
following the river systems.
>>REGINA: And they would
have brought with them
the spiritual technologies
they were aware of, of being
able to locate these
geodetic lay lines and such,
that would have areas
that have presented
particular opportunity or
power or energy to work with,
which they generally did when
they put these stone circles
up, which is being made
very popular in the moment
by the Outlander series,
both the books and television
of a woman traveling through
time through a vortex in one
of these stone circles.
But it's good.
I mean, it's Hollywood,
but it's excellent in terms
of just giving us
a little experience
of mystical potentials in
some of these ancient places.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
you get that feeling
when you go to these sites.
And there's something there
for the intuitive people
to really pick up on.
>>REGINA: I've been
in some of them
and you can start flashing
back in time to what may have
been occurring at that time.
And it's rather easy to do.
>>LEHRBURGER: Now
many, many people
ask, well, how come the
Native Americans couldn't
have created these?
Why don't you believe
the Native Americans
created America's Stonehenge
in southern New Hampshire?
And one reason that I believe
these were Celtic in origin
is that we see the tracking
of the cross quarter
days in addition to the
equinoxes and solstices.
These are the four days that
fall between the equinox
and the solstice.
For example--
>>REGINA: At the midpoint.
>>LEHRBURGER: That's right.
So the February
cross quarter day
is Imbolc, which is a
celebration of the goddess
Bridgit.
And the May cross quarter
day is Beltane or Beltano,
which is a celebration
of the sun god Bel.
The Lughnasadh is the
August cross quarter
day, also celebrating a--
>>REGINA: So these
are represented
in these stone circles?
>>LEHRBURGER: And
in the stone circles
of America's Stonehenge, we
see these monuments lined up so
that the Celts and other people
that perhaps where there could
tell when is Lughnasadh and when
is May Day, which is Beltano.
So it's rare that we see the
Native Americans marking off--
>>REGINA: Theirs are
more normally all north,
west, east, south, right?
I mean, north, south,
east, west orientation
in a lot of the medicine
circles of Americans, too.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes.
And there are circles and
time keeping, especially
with equinoxes and solstices
at Native American sites,
but it's rare that you
find these cross quarter
days being noted or celebrated.
So in the case of America's
Stonehenge in southern New
Hampshire, we see these
monolithic markers
to mark these off.
And that, in addition to
some of the Celtic writing
that we find, are
indicative that it was not
Native Americans.
>>REGINA: Let's go to the
Balanced Rocks of New England
and Colorado.
It's really pretty
wonderful imagery there.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
you have to understand
that the world to the
ancients, whether they
be Native Americans or
ancient travelers from abroad,
really saw the world
as a sacred place.
And they celebrated
the sacredness
in what they left for us.
So whether it was the Celts
or later day Native Americans,
you find these
perched rocks where
they were lifted up and
in some kind of a display
of a significance for them.
And we find many of
these in New England.
We believe most of them were
Celtic, but not necessarily,
because there's
really no evidence
to say that the Native
Americans didn't or couldn't
have made them.
And we find the same in
Colorado and in Europe.
I would argue that the
ones in New England
are of Celtic origin because
they're so similar to what
we do find in Europe.
Much of what we find in the
Americas of the Celtic presence
are relatively small compared
to the megalithic and large
structures of, for example,
Newgrange in Ireland,
or Stonehenge in Europe.
So here we find
smaller representations
because we just didn't have
the significant bodies of work
and men to put these together.
So we find much smaller
representations,
much smaller circles.
But we do find these perched
rocks throughout New England.
And it's amazing when
you come across them.
>>REGINA: They seem
to defy gravity a bit.
>>LEHRBURGER: Yes, it does.
>>REGINA: I have
only one more example
we're going to talk about here.
And we're barely through my
list from our first hour.
>>LEHRBURGER: Uh-oh.
>>REGINA: No, this is great.
I love it when there's
plenty more to talk about.
Crack Cave Grian, however that
is pronounced-- capital GR,
little ia, capital N,
the sun or sun goddess.
The significance of this.
>>LEHRBURGER: Well,
let's continue our story
with the Celts.
So we have the Celts, their
stronghold the New England
probably many hundreds
of years before Christ,
perhaps going back 1,000
years, expanding out
into this heartland of
America by my mostly
following the river
systems, finding their way
to the Mississippi.
And then to explore
the west, traveling up
the Arkansas River and down
the various tributaries
along the Arkansas, including
the Purgatory and the Cimarron.
People say, well, how did
the Celts get to Oklahoma?
Well, they followed
the river systems.
And that's how the ancients made
their way into the interior.
Bill McGlone, my mentor, dubbed
parts of eastern Colorado
and a little bit of Kansas and
Oklahoma as the Ogham Corridor.
Ogham is a writing
system used by the Celts
and found in Ireland
and in England.
But we also find American Ogham.
And some of the best
examples of Ogham,
often pronounced "om",
spelled O G H A M,
are found in the Colorado,
Oklahoma panhandle, and Kansas.
Perhaps the first site that
Bill McGlone and Phil Leonard
researched and described in
their book Ancient American
Inscriptions is
Crack Cave, which
is located on Comanche
national grasslands
in southeastern Colorado.
And it is located in a
park call Picture Canyon.
And throughout Picture Canyon,
there's all sorts of rock art.
And I would say a good part
of it, perhaps most of it,
is certainly Native American.
And we can surmise that
this canyon provided shelter
for many people, including
Native Americans and travelers
in the harsh winters.
So that this collective
rock art really
shows continuing
occupation of picture
canyon over many millennia.
When Roland Gillespie,
who is a NASA
scientist and a diffusionist
researcher, came to Colorado,
he asked a local
farmer if he knew
of any time keeping
glyphs or petroglyphs that
might represent time.
And this farmer, this rancher
whose name was Ted Barker,
said yes.
I remember seeing some
markings in a place
called Picture Canyon.
And he took up Roland
Gillespie, accompanied
by Bill McGlone and Phil
Leonard to this very narrow cave
in Colorado that faced due east.
And in this very
small cave, there
is a wall that has pretty
significant markings
as well as other Ogham-like
writing throughout the cave.
When the explorers
first saw it, they
thought, hey, this might
be a solstice marker.
But nothing happened
during the solstice.
And then they determined
it was really lined up
to be an equinox marker.
And sure enough, when
they arrived right
before the equinox,
they could clearly
see that the sun rising
would come directly
into the very narrow
opening of the cave.
And on the equinox, the
light of the sunrise
would actually
grace the cave wall
where these petroglyphs
and writing were.
And Bill McGlone and Phil
Leonard, as epigraphers,
were able to read the Ogham
inscription inside the cave.
And the inscription reads, "the
sun strikes on the day of Bel."
And sure enough,
only on the equinox
does the sun come into
this cave and strike
the inscription where
it was indicated
by the Celtic writing.
But it's really
even more precise,
because they have tick
marks so that anyone
who is familiar with
the construction
of this particular
calendar would
be able to tell that it's
three days before the equinox,
two days before the equinox.
This is the day
before the equinox.
And on the day of
the equinox, you
see the alignment perfectly
formed with the light cast
right where the
inscription reads.
>>REGINA: That's some
powerful evidence.
>>LEHRBURGER: The sun
strikes on the day of Bel.
So this was really one of the
most notable instances that
was first discovered that I
would say proved the Celts were
in Colorado and led to
other sites and discoveries
in the area that allowed
McGlone to suggest
that this was a Ogham Corridor
in the middle of North America.
>>REGINA: And it
gets even juicier.
I mean, what's
Anubis doing, right?
In another cave.
So we're going to
continue this conversation
and we'll probably
speed it up a bit
just to get through
some more of these,
because we have so
many juicy bits left.
>>LEHRBURGER: It's a big
history of America, isn't it?
>>REGINA: It is.
We're going to pick
up the conversation
with Anubis Cave, the
Anubis Cave, which I just
find fascinating.
Also some of the
influences that are
more Hebrew in nature,
Mesoamerican, and also
East Indian.
So stay tuned for our
next conversation.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]